import of the vmware_rest documentation (#72090)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/scenario_guides/vmware_rest_scenarios/collect_information.rst

.. _vmware_rest_collect_info:

*************************************************
How to collect information about your environment
*************************************************

> .. contents:: Topics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. contents::
  :local:

```

Introduction
============

> This guide will show you how to utilize Ansible to collect information about your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows you how to utilize Ansible to collect information about your environment.
```

> environment. These information will be useful later for the other tutorials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
environment. This information will be useful later for the other tutorials.
```

> environment. These information will be useful later for the other tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This information is useful for the other tutorials.
```

> Scenario Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scenario requirements
```

=====================

In this scenario we've got a vCenter with an ESXi host.

Our environment is pre-initialized with the following elements:

> - a datacenter called ``my_dc``

Reviewer 2: We want to capitalize the first letter of each list item
https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/dev_guide/style_guide/grammar_punctuation.html

- a cluster called ``my_cluser``
- a cluster called ``my_cluser``
- an ESXi host called ``esxi1`` is in the cluster
- two datastores on the ESXi: ``rw_datastore`` and ``ro_datastore``
- a dvswitch based guest network

> Finally, we use the environment variables to authenticate ourselves as explain in :ref:`vmware_rest_authentication`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, we use the environment variables to authenticate ourselves as explained in :ref:`vmware_rest_authentication`. 
```

How to collect information
==========================

> In this examples, we will use the ``vcenter_*_info`` module to collect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In these examples, we will use the ``vcenter_*_info`` modules to collect
```

> In this examples, we will use the ``vcenter_*_info`` module to collect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In these examples, we use the ``vcenter_*_info`` module to collect information about the associated resources.
```

> information about the associated resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

All these modules return a ``value`` key. Depending on the context, this ``value`` key will be either a list or a dictionary.

Datacenter
----------

> Here we use the ``vcenter_datacenter_info`` module to list all the datacente:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here we use the ``vcenter_datacenter_info`` module to list all the datacenters:
```

> Here we use the ``vcenter_datacenter_info`` module to list all the datacente:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we use the ``vcenter_datacenter_info`` module to list all the datacenters:
```

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/collect_a_list_of_the_datacenters.task.yaml

Result
______

> As expected, the ``value`` key of the output is a list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``value`` key of the output is a list.
```
I believe we want to avoid terms like this.
https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/devel/dev_guide/style_guide/basic_rules.html

Author: I think this one is ok because I mention the output type previously.

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/collect_a_list_of_the_datacenters.result.json

Cluster
-------

Here we do the same with ``vcenter_cluster_info``:

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/Build_a_list_of_all_the_clusters.task.yaml

Result
______

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/Build_a_list_of_all_the_clusters.result.json

> And we can also fetch the details about a specific cluster, to do so we use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And we can also fetch the details about a specific cluster, with the ``cluster`` parameter:
```

> the ``cluster`` parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/Retrieve_details_about_the_first_cluster.task.yaml

Result
______

> And the the ``value`` key of the output is this time a dictionary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``value`` key of the output in this example is a dictionary.
```

> And the the ``value`` key of the output is this time a dictionary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And the ``value`` key of the output is this time a dictionary.
```

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/Retrieve_details_about_the_first_cluster.result.json

Datastore
---------

Here we use ``vcenter_datastore_info`` to get a list of all the datastores:

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/Retrieve_a_list_of_all_the_datastores.task.yaml

Result
______

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/Retrieve_a_list_of_all_the_datastores.result.json

Folder
------

And here again, you use the ``vcenter_folder_info`` module to retrieve a list of all the folders.

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/Build_a_list_of_all_the_folders.task.yaml

Result
______

.. literalinclude:: task_outputs/Build_a_list_of_all_the_folders.result.json

> Most of the time, you will just want one type folders, in this case we can use filters to reduce the amount to collect. Most of the ``_info`` modules comes with similar filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of the time, you will just want one type of folders, in this case we can use filters to reduce what information is collected. Most of the ``_info`` modules come with similar filters.
```

> Most of the time, you will just want one type folders, in this case we can use filters to reduce the amount to collect. Most of the ``_info`` modules comes with similar filters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the time, you will just want one type of folder. In this case we can use filters to reduce the amount to collect. Most of the ``_info`` modules come with similar filters.
```
